Convert Extensions tutorial articles to sample articles (#3327)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part2-content-scripts.md

---
title: "Sample: Insert an image in the webpage"

> description: Uses JavaScript to insert a .png file below the <body> start-tag of the current webpage.

Author: result: 
```
description: Uses JavaScript to insert a .jpeg image file inside the <body> element 
of the current webpage.
```
hit count on .png: only in /icons/ dir.
hit count on .jpg: 0

See also:
* [Sideload an extension to install and test it locally](./extension-sideloading.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Study the sample

In the following sections, you study the sample.  After that, to develop your own Microsoft Edge extension, you can copy and modify the sample's directory, and install and test the resulting extension.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Files and directories

The sample has the following directory structure and files.

Example path for the sample:
`C:\Users\localAccount\GitHub\MicrosoftEdge-Extensions\Extension samples\extension-getting-started-part2\extension-getting-started-part2`

Directories and files in the `\extension-getting-started-part2\` directory:

```shell
/content-scripts/
   content.js
/icons/
   nasapod16x16.png
   nasapod32x32.png
   nasapod48x48.png
   nasapod128x128.png
/images/
   stars.jpeg
/lib/

>    jquery.min.js

Author: result:
```
<!-- 
todo:
create docs repo PR + Extension repo PR:
remove jQuery
sample uses jQuery just for the $ selector:  $("body"))
change to document.querySelector
-->
```

* The `/popup/` directory contains `popup.html`, which defines the webpage content that's displayed in the extension's pop-up.
* `manifest.json` contains basic information about the extension.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Strategy to update the webpage to insert the image at the top (`stars.jpeg`)

This sample includes a content script that's injected into the webpage that's loaded in the current browser tab.

1. When you run the extension sample, the initial popup HTML page is displayed (`popup.html`), showing a title, instructions, and the **Display** button.

1. When you click the **Display** button, the JavaScript (`popup.js`) for the initial popup page sends a message to the content script (`content.js`) that's running on the tab page.  The message specifies which image file should be displayed.

1. The content script (`content.js`) running on the tab page receives the message, and displays the specified image file (`stars.jpeg`).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## The default initial popup webpage (`popup.html`)

Author: live version of Part 2 article contains "default" 1x:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part2-content-scripts
```
    "action": {
        "default_popup": "popup/popup.html"
    },
```

> ## The default initial popup webpage (`popup.html`)

Author: live version of Part 1 article contains "default" 3x:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part1-simple-extension#step-3-open-a-default-pop-up-dialog

hit 1: 
You create this type of extension by doing the following:
* Create a manifest.json file.
* Add icons for launching the extension.
* Open a default pop-up dialog.

hit 2: 
* H2 heading: "Step 3: Open a default pop-up dialog"

hit 3: manifest file:
```
  "action": {
        "default_popup": "popup/popup.html"
    }
```

> ## The default initial popup webpage (`popup.html`)

Author: result:
```
## The initial popup webpage (`popup.html`)

`popup.html` is specified in the manifest file as the webpage to display in the extension's 
initial popup.  The manifest file contains the key field `"default_popup": "popup/popup.html"`.  
This sample's `popup.html` file is a small webpage that contains a title, instructions, and a **Display** button.
```

> `popup.html` is specified in the manifest file as the initial, default webpage to display in the extension popup.  This webpage contains a title, instructions, and a **Display** button.

Author: result:
```
`popup.html` is specified in the manifest file as the webpage to display in the 
extension's initial popup.  This small webpage contains a title, instructions, and 
a **Display** button.
```

</html>
```

The **Display** button is added by the above code.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## JavaScript (`popup.js`) for the initial pop-up page, to send a message to the injected JavaScript

The `popup/popup.js` file includes the following code:

> This code sends a message to the content script (`content.js`) that's temporarily injected into the browser tab.  To do that, the following code adds an `onclick` event to the pop-up **Display** button:

Author: result:
```
`popup.js` sends a message to the content script (`content.js`) that's temporarily injected 
into the browser tab.  To do that, `popup.js` adds an `onclick` event to the pop-up webpage's  
**Display** button, which has the ID `sendmessageid`:
```

`/popup/popup.js` (portion):

```javascript

> const sendMessageId = document.getElementById("sendmessageid");

Author: result:
```
In the following `popup.js` code, the sample uses `chrome.tabs.query` to find the current 
browser tab, and then uses `chrome.tabs.sendMessage` to send a message to that tab.
```

> 

Reviewer: This comment is for 271-273 and 295-300, and is out of scope, because it impacts the source code.

We should explain why we need a unique ID at all (in this case, it's to be able to find the image element again later and delete it, I think). And I really don't see the reason to list 2 options if we leave one alone, very enigmatically, without saying one.
Finally, and more importantly, we can replace the entire `guidGenerator` function with just one function call: `crypto.randomUUID()`. This now works across all browsers, and is far superior than using Math.random a bunch of times.

Author: result:
```
<!-- 
todo:
requires PR in docs repo + PR in Extension repo.  in a couple passages (formerly 
lines 271-273 and 295-300):

add: "A unique ID is needed, to be able to find the image element again later and 
delete it."

don't list 2 options if we leave one alone, enigmatically

replace guidGenerator function with a single call of `crypto.randomUUID()`.  works 
in all browsers, better than using `Math.random` multiple times
-->
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## The content script message listener (`content.js`)

Here's the `content-scripts\content.js` file that gets injected into every browser tab page based on the `content-scripts` section in `manifest.json`:

> `/content-scripts/content.js` (complete listing):

Reviewer: This code snippet isn't shown anywhere else in the code, so I don't think this line is necessary./ The sentence on line 310 seems like a  sufficient lead-in text.

Author: removed line:
``/content-scripts/content.js` (complete listing):`

When an event is processed by the listener, the function that is the first parameter is run.  The first parameter of that function is an object that has attributes as assigned by `sendMessage`.  That function simply processes the three jQuery script lines.

*   The first script line appends an `img` element right below the `body` of the browser tab that has the `slide-image` class assigned as well as the `imageDivId` as the ID of that image element.

*   The second script line dynamically inserts into the DOM header a **\<style\>** section that's assigned as a `slide-image` class to the `img` element.

*   The third script line adds a `click` event that covers the entire image allowing the user to select anywhere on the image and that image is removed from the page (along with it is event listener).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How `stars.jpeg` is made available from any browser tab

To make `images/stars.jpeg` available from any browser tab:
* `popup.js` (above) uses the `chrome.runtime.getURL` API.

> * The manifest (below) specifies that `web_accessible_resources` of type `.jpg` match all URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The manifest (below) specifies that `web_accessible_resources` of type `.jpeg` match all URLs.
```

}
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### The manifest's `content_scripts` section injects JavaScript into all browser tabs

> In the `content_scripts` key section, the `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that `.js` (or `.css`) files that are specified in In the `content_scripts` key section are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript (`.js`) and CSS (`.css`).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `content_scripts` key section, the `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that `.js` (or `.css`) files that are specified in the `content_scripts` key section are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript (`.js`) and CSS (`.css`).  
```

Author: result, without "In", and with 'manifest' at start:
```
In the `content_scripts` key section of the manifest file, the `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that `.js` (or `.css`) files that are specified in the
```

In this sample, the following files are specified:
* `content-scripts/content.js`
* `lib/jquery.min.js`

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### How jQuery support is added (`jquery.min.js`)

> `jquery.min.js` is a predefined, minified file to support jQuery expressions starting with `$` in `popup.js` and `content.js`.

Reviewer: JQuery is only used in content.js, not in popup.js.

```suggestion
`jquery.min.js` is a predefined, minified file to support jQuery expressions starting with `$` in `content.js`.
```

Author: popup.js contains line that contains `$`:
```
imageDivId: `${guidGenerator()}`,
```
@captainbrosset - keep mention of popup.js?

Reviewer: These are 2 different use of `$`:

* `$(...)`
* `${...}`

The former is the jQuery selector function. The latter is a placeholder which can be used in JS template strings.

If popup.js only contains the latter, then it doesn't actually uses jQuery, and therefore doesn't need it.

In injected content scripts, it's common to use jQuery (`$`).  This sample includes a minified version of jQuery, residing in the extension package<!-- todo: check 'package' --> as `lib\jquery.min.js`.

> Each content script (`popup.js` and `content.js`) runs in an individual sandbox, which means that the jQuery that's injected into the initial popup page isn't shared with the current webpage.

Author: @captainbrosset pls critically review the wording in these two h4 sections:

https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/blob/user/mikehoffms/extension-samples/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part2-content-scripts.md#how-jquery-support-is-added-jqueryminjs

Each content script (popup.js and content.js) runs in an individual sandbox, which means that the jQuery that's injected into the initial popup page isn't shared with the current webpage.

Even if the browser tab has JavaScript running on it on the loaded web page, any content that's injected doesn't have access to that JavaScript. The injected JavaScript only has access to the actual DOM that's loaded in that browser tab.

Author: result:
```
The content script (`content.js`) runs in its own sandbox, which means that the jQuery that's injected into `content.js` isn't shared with the current webpage.
...
Even if the browser tab contains a webpage that runs JavaScript code, the `content.js` script that's injected in that browser tab by the extension doesn't have access to that JavaScript code.  The injected content script only has access to the DOM of the webpage.
```

> Each content script (`popup.js` and `content.js`) runs in an individual sandbox, which means that the jQuery that's injected into the initial popup page isn't shared with the current webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content script (`content.js`) runs in its own sandbox, which means that the jQuery that's injected in `content.js` isn't shared with the current webpage.
```

Author: had to pick "injected by content.js" or "injected into content.js".  result:
```
The content script (`content.js`) runs in its own sandbox, which means that 
the jQuery that's injected into `content.js` isn't shared with the current webpage.
```
@captainbrosset

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Understanding the thread

Each tab page (and extension) runs in its own thread.

> Even if the browser tab has JavaScript running on it on the loaded web page, any content that's injected doesn't have access to that JavaScript.  The injected JavaScript only has access to the actual DOM that's loaded in that browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if the browser tab contains a web page that runs JavaScript code, the `content.js` script that's injected in that browser tab by the extension doesn't have access to that JavaScript code.  The injected content script only has access to the DOM of the web page.
```

Author: result: the Suggested change, except webpage not web page

Author: @captainbrosset - corp style: webpage is one word
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/web-world-wide-web-www - "The following terms that include _web_ are one word: webpage, website,"
